Country	Percentage	Land Size	Other Land Characteristics	Household Size	Household Male Farm Labour	Household Female Farm Labour	Hired Farm Labour	Time Spent on Farm Activities	Ratio of Children to Adults within Household	Improved/Purchased Seeds	Pesticide/Herbicide Use	Fertilizer Use	Farm Tools & Equipment 	Agricultural Extension	Export/Cash Crops	Distance to Market or Road	Non-Farm Income/Activity	Age	Years of Schooling	Wealth/Consumption
Ethiopia	80.6	1	1	1	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	1	1	1	0	0	0	0	0	1
Malawi	80	0	1	1	1	0	0	0	1	1	1	1	1	1	1	1	0	0	1	1
Niger	60.2	0	1	1	1	1	1	0	1	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	0
Northern Nigeria	68.5	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0
Southern Nigeria	85.5	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	1	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0
Tanzania	81.3	1	0	1	1	1	1	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	1	0	1	0	0
Uganda	75.2	0	0	1	1	1	1	0	1	1	1	1	0	1	1	0	0	1	1	1
 In Ethiopia and Tanzania, women receive lower returns than men to an extra hectare of land. This difference could suggest that the marginal land that women obtain may be of poorer  quality than men’s, among a range of other potential explanations. 	Gender differences in other land characteristics, including plot elevation and perceived control over land, further reduce women’s productivity when compared with men in Ethiopia, Malawi and Niger.  	On average, female farmers tend to live in smaller households with fewer men, possibly due to widowhood, migration or divorce. Consequently, women farmers across Ethiopia, Malawi, northern Nigeria, Tanzania and Uganda have fewer household members to provide labour on the farm or support in the home. 	Even after taking into account household size, female farmers in Malawi, Niger, southern Nigeria and Tanzania deploy fewer household male labourers on their plots. Further, in all these countries except Nigeria, these male labourers generate lower returns for female farmers relative to male farmers. 	Even after taking into account household size, female farmers in Malawi, Niger, southern Nigeria and Tanzania deploy fewer household male labourers on their plots. Further, in all these countries except Nigeria, these male labourers generate lower returns for female farmers relative to male farmers. 	Female farmers also face challenges in hiring effective outside labour. These findings suggest that women may not be able to afford to pay as much as men for effective farm workers; that cultural norms may mean that these labourers work harder for a male supervisor; and/or that women’s time constraints (due to their household roles) may affect their ability to supervise their farm labourers. 	Women often hold primary responsibility for household duties, including caring for children. These obligations mean that female farmers have less flexibility to determine the timing and duration of their farm activities.  	...having a larger proportion of children in the household (relative to adults) reduces women’s productivity more than men’s in Malawi, Niger, southern Nigeria and Uganda. 	Female farmers in Malawi and Uganda are less likely to use improved seeds than males, which widens the gap. 	Male and joint managers receive higher returns from the use of organic fertiliser and the use of pesticides than female managers. Gender differences in knowledge relating to timing and appropriate use of these productive inputs, or even in the quality of the products themselves, may explain these differences. 	In Ethiopia and Tanzania, gender differences in returns to fertiliser use contribute to the gap, suggesting that female farmers in these countries use lower-quality fertiliser or apply it incorrectly or at the wrong time. Women in Niger and Malawi, meanwhile, face gender gaps in both domains: They use fertiliser less intensively than men and they achieve smaller productivity gains from the fertiliser they do use. 	Tools, equipment and machinery that reduce the amount of farm labour required could benefit female farmers. 	While receiving agricultural extension services does not contribute to the gender gap, these services generate better relative returns for male farm managers. This result suggests that women may receive less effective extension advice or guidance that is not tailored to their specific needs. 	In Malawi, women farmers are less likely to cultivate export crops, such as tobacco, than men, and this difference contributes substantially to the country’s gender gap. Similarly, in Uganda the fact that women are less likely to grow cash crops widens the gender gap.	Male/female differences in a plot’s distance from the nearest road contribute to the gender productivity gap in Tanzania. In Malawi, even though both women and men access agricultural marketing offices, women derive lower levels of benefit from this access compared with male farmers. 	Women’s lower levels of access to non-farm income drives part of Niger’s gender gap 	Women farmers tend to be older, on average, than men farmers, but age contributes to the yield gap only in Tanzania, Nigeria and Uganda. 	Male/female differences in years of schooling among farmers translate into differences in agricultural productivity in Uganda and, to a lesser degree, Malawi.  	Most farming households practise subsistence agriculture, with fewer than half of all farming households selling what they produce. Poverty thus remains a critical issue, and it disproportionately affects female-headed households 