Project 1: Combating Gender Disparities in Education Levels for children in Africa

Research Question

I am visualizing data portraying how many years children in sub-saharan Africa are enrolled in school and each country’s expectation of years boys and girls should ideally be educated for. 

Description

This project focuses on the current education system in sub-saharan Africa, specifically how many years children spend in school. It highlights the significant disparities between girls and boys level of education and the overall lower level of schooling that is provided. One of the most significant findings discovered through this project relates to the lower and uneven expectations had by each country for how many years girls vs boys should ideally be in school for. When thinking about ways to improve education systems in Africa, this finding related to low schooling expectations by governments themselves, could serve as the first step towards change. Though the task of combating gender inequality in sub-saharan Africa can seem overwhelming, education may be a hugely successful way of brightening girls futures in this region.

Methodology

The data is sourced from the World Bank datasets provided through the UN for the purpose of these visualizations.

The project includes all information found within the dataset related to education which was broken down into mean years of schooling for boys, mean years of schooling for girls, expected years of school for boys and expected years of schooling for girls for each country in sub-saharan Africa. The countries are examined comparatively and can also be examined by regions. 

This project raises questions on what might be preventing girls from completing more years of school or at least as many as boys. One should also question the variance in expectations from one country to another in the same region on years of schooling for their children and why girls and boys have different levels of expectations. 

Project 2: Examining relationships between African Countries: Comparing Gender Disparities in the Region

Research Question

I am visualizing an interactive map of Africa that depicts data comparing human development indexes, GNI and life expectancy of men and women in each country and the region as a whole.

Description

This project portrays a variety of data linked to gender inequality in Sub-Saharan Africa by allowing users to interact with a simplified map format that will draw a range of different data comparing male to female statistics of that country. The goal of this visualization was to take a closer and clearer look at how each independent country deals with gender inequality and the variance of stats within the continent. The map depicted has been boiled down to titles and borders providing no topographic information, though agriculture and land owned by each gender are definitely statistics I hope to include and were in many ways the inspiration behind this project. 

Project 2 Methodology

The sources used in this visualization will range from the HDI data shared by the UN to any other spreadsheets provided or linked to the world bank in order to create the most comprehensive visual portrayal of the realities existing in this region. I decided to pull from numerous data sources with the hopes of comparing a variety of statistics that may not have been compiled together but can definitely be read side by side. This range of data contributes to gaining a better and broader understanding of the different places gender disparities do or do not exist in each country. 